OK let's cover freelancer very quickly freelancer.
Again the Profile for this platform is if you're looking for someone who's really cheap really easy
and they do things really really quickly.
That's what freelancers for freelancers for a lot of virtual assistant task data entry.
You can also get web development and you also get marketing tools and marketing task done.
That's just not really there for.
This is great for getting tons and tons of bids very quickly and getting some menial task done immediately.
Now what's different here is they have the same thing hire per hour hire for a fixed rate and they ask
you for the length as well.
The only difference is that you don't have that you can enter this later.
You have to say micro project or simple project.
Now what is wrong with this is that if you're posting a job posting chances are you do not know how
expensive your job posting is going to be.
You don't know expensive your application is that's why you're asking for estimates some of you might
have a general idea but you know you don't really know.
Also there's a big problem with this is say I was posting a big Web site like this.
OK.
Fifteen hundred at $3000.
Well if I had a big Web site that say took 100 hours and I had an Indian group that gets paid $15 an
hour in a hundred hours they would charge me dollars.
Now if I had an American firm spend a hundred hours on this they would expect anywhere from 5000 to
10000 dollars.
Now they're completely left out of the cold here and they can't actually bid on their project.
I always suggest casting a net as wide as possible so you can see a range of options because believe
it or not you will almost always be surprised at what you can get this done for.
What I suggest doing it this is a complete loophole in their system as you go customize budget and then
asked for you for a minimum and ask you for a maximum The minimum is $10 if you want to go below $10
say and your message hey tell me in your private message you'll work for below $10.
They only do $10 because they don't want anything below that because it's not worth it for their fee
and the processing fee to get it done.
But you can always if it's that low I mean you might as well just work with someone off the system on
Paypal and we talk about that strategy getting people off the system later in a later lecture.
But typically it is what I do I just put the absolute lowest and the absolute highest I can think of
10 million dollars.
Obviously I'll put that let's say a hundred thousand dollars or something like that that are ten thousand
whatever it is.
What do you think the upper range is whatever you think of the absolute maximum you'll ever spend.
Is because one of the things you're real.
Find out very quickly is.
Let's say I go simple project and my project should cost $20.
I didn't realize it's only $20 or project.
I put it at 30 to 250 because I thought oh it's maybe a $30 project or $40 project.
When people see this 30 to 250 they're going to bid relative to what other people bid and this is something
that's very specific to a freelancer.
So what will happen is someone will bid for that project see that your budget is up to 250 and bid like
$150.
I have had and are really making this up to opportunities where I have posted this with a micro budget.
Has someone bid $25 and then I posted it again a week later with simple project.
Same person same message.
$150.
So what ends up happening is a lot of people just assume it's larger if your budget's larger.
Or they assume this is an opportunity to get more money for what they're doing.
A lot of people in here are not particularly honest so I was the customize and put some ridiculously
high budget that's so obvious that it's not real.
Then they have to pick their own number and they have to be actually honest about it.
OK these are the additions that freelancer wants to charge you.
It's free to post on freelancer's free to post in all of these platforms.
This is how they actually make their money.
Then they go a little bit of money off of what you transfer to the freelancer.
But this is one of their big money makers.
So when the thing is a recruiter.
A recruiter is someone who helps you find the best results from your project.
Don't do it.
It's never worth it.
250 percent higher success rate.
What does that even mean.
Are they guaranteeing that your project is successful.
That's just nonsense it's not worth $30 to have one person send you an email or for what ends up happening.
We have experiment or that you'll have someone contact you send you a template email and say hey we
suggest this freelancer and that freelancer has the most billable hours and they have the highest ratings.
OK I could have done that it didn't need to pay $30 to use an algorithm to determine who the best one
was.
In fact the best one always gets displayed at the top of the job listings or when you put your job posting
the top of the freelancer bids.
So featured that's just if you want to get more traffic if you have a project you're very serious about.
You have a budget for it.
You might think about getting featured what typically ends up happening here is you just get bombed
with too many bids and that's usually a problem.
There is a side effect of featured projects will get more information we'll get people who give better
bids.
But this is also freelancers so when I say better bids it means like maybe they customize two sentences
out of their template urgent urgent can be helpful because what it does is it puts in a section for
projects they need to get done now.
But similarly what you can do is you can just list your project as lasting one day and that'll also
put you in the urgent category so that actually is not particularly helpful sealed.
That means that people can't see other people's bids.
What that means is people have to be more honest about what their bidding they can't just base it off
other people that generally can be helpful.
But I think that also backfires a little bit because what'll happen is if someone has a project and
they want to bid five hundred dollars on it because that's what they think it's worth.
But they see that someone's bid for 50.
They might take a harder look at it and say hey we can do it for 400.
You want that process to happen because that's going to lower the price and it's going to save you a
lot of money.
That's one of the big advantages of these platforms because they compete against each other and you
want that competition because it gives you the best price.
Now you don't want too much competition because then you get unrealistic prices.
You get these people who are doing it for peanuts because they want to review or they want the history.
And those are just very volatile relationships and so you want to avoid that a little bit.
Typically I don't like to use SEO but if you're not really interested in saving 20 percent from the
competition fact you can try being sealed.
Private is the same thing as before.
It hides your details from search engines.
So this is interesting because when you list a project freelancer will automatically put it on Google.
And then when you want to delete your project and get it off google they want to charge you to remove
it from their system.
Ridiculous I know.
But what ends up happening is if this is not sensitive information you can not pay them and just wait
for it to expire once it expires it's never going to be found anyway unless someone was specifically
looking for it.
And even then they will not be able to find it full time.
This is you're having a full time person if you're a full time person.
Don't do it on freelancer.
Much better places to work than freelance or this is just silly and I don't know why you pay them 200
dollars.
Working with them full time just get them off of the system.
Save the money.
Split the savings and you can just a much much better way of doing it.
Nda nondisclosure agreements if that makes you feel comfortable you can do it.
I used to work as a venture capitalist so I know that India is are completely worthless especially in
a scenario of outsourcing someone who's overseas is just not it doesn't matter.
I mean they can sign this India and then copy it or do whatever.
What are you going to do send the FBI to their country it's just not going to happen.
No one takes that seriously.
Sometimes this conveys a little more professionalism but it is so uncommon on this platform that I don't
think it's actually worth it.
Now if you're just looking for a contractor in country it might be helpful.
You know it's also you can do.
Also you can just send them your NDA and send it on.
Hello sign.
And we have an NDA attached to this course so that actually saves you $20.
Just upload it send it to him.
It's FREE.
They sign it.
Same deal.
OK.
That is freelancer as you can tell.
I hate all of these upgrades.
You can try them sealed in private.
Those are the ones that I had to pick something I pick it featured can sometimes help I'm doing a really
large project.
This is how you get around that problem of telling people what your budget is and therefore priming
the discussion too much.
All right now we're going to finish off with up work.
I'm still not getting used to up work because you called oDesk I don't get this thing.
The design looks like a fish.
I don't know what was wrong with the other one.
But anyway here we are.
So they were very similar as you can see to Elance.
So in this case we would say web mobile and software development.
There you go and then you pick something as you can tell.
There are a lot less specific here.
But if you just want a generic development you just say mobile development the owner of the Web site
you do web development.
So it's a mobile and here we describe our whatever they ask for a lot more information which is kind
of annoying.
You know this is helpful in the sense that if I say iPhone and I also wanted it for iPads is always
important.
It'll it all message more people.
This is something very specific to up work which is that you can say you want to hire one freelancer
you can say you want to hire multiple ones.
Now multiple ones might mean that if you're doing a data entry project and you want multiple people
working at it at the same time and coordinating you might want multiple ones.
Similarly you might want to hire specialists to build your application one person to the front and one
person knows the back end or one who has the graphic design or whatever or whatever.
Usually what I do is if I can possibly conceive of hiring more than one I will say it and then I'll
just say like two or three or whatever it doesn't matter.
The reason why is because when you're browsing projects on up work it will have a massive icon on your
thing saying looking for multiple freelancers.
Now the reason why that's a good thing for a freelancer is it just means the likelihood of them getting
hired is much higher out of the pool of 50 people maybe they're hiring three as opposed to one.
Three times as likely to get hired here or you can be more specific.
This helps quite a bit.
You should never click this one because if you're following this course I teach you how we build specifications.
You should always put this and then design that's just whether or not you've gone out and gotten them
designed.
We have cores coming out on how you can get designs done very easily.
But look forward to that.
So then are you experienced in managing this type of job.
I'm not entirely sure what this even does for you.
Really I think if you say no it's going to try to up sell you on things and it's going to limit who
sees the application or who sees the job posting it's going to limit it to people who have more experience
on up work or have more experience in general with their craft.
That's never a bad thing but we always want to open the floodgates so much as possible.
And then here are things that are optional.
You can talk about what are the programming languages you want to know if it's an iOS application.
There's really only one you can build it in.
So there's no point filling that out.
Other skills you know you can get specific if there's other things they have to do if they have to design
as well.
You can say design.
And then you can pick the right mobile application design mobile UI design is what they call it.
OK.
So that might be helpful.
You need to integrate with any API.
You know you can say other and I would say Twilio in this case but it doesn't ask me.
These are all very helpful.
These are all very very specific.
Same question here do you go by pay by our pay fixed rate they limit you in the sense that you have
to say what your budget is.
You have to say what your hourly rate is.
I hate that that really just sets the project up for failure.
But keep in mind you're posting this on three platforms maybe even four if you do guru.com or people
per hour.
So you should be able to get enough between the three you can try different strategies on each platform
to really kind of root out the best ones and then just ask you you know how long are they going to be
working on this.
Keep in mind part time what that means is it's consistently per week anywhere from 10 to 40 hours.
Full time is 40 hours or over as needed as anything under 10 hours.
If you don't have a set schedule always pick as needed.
Otherwise you do have a set schedule you can pick these.
That's nice.
Freelancer preferences they do this a little bit differently.
So here's the same question that you got on the other ones should only people within the system see
it showing you going invites yet can anyone fineness anyone means that they can find it through Google.
They don't even have a profile they can see your job posting and then they can sign up and bid.
I typically do this if I want to hide some of my information for some reason or this if I don't really
care.
Preferred qualifications these are completely.
They're helpful ish if you know what you want.
So we have a lecture on if you want to work with a firm or an independent person that can be a make
a big difference if you're not if you don't care.
Pick no preference if you feel like you should have a preference.
Go to the other lecture watch that one minimum feedback score is generally kind of silly.
You just don't want to limit this too much unless you have a very very well funded project with a lot
of time and effort put behind it and a lot of money behind it you're just not going to have the luxury
of being too picky.
So I usually just say any score and then I personally root out the ones that are good and bad.
You can do this if you want to you of your find just getting fewer bids or if you have a really attractive
project this one.
How often are they worked on upper.
That just doesn't really matter.
It just means how long are they've been on the system.
It means how consistent or reliable they are.
So that's generally a good idea.
But in my experience a lot is people work off the system.
So you've got great freelancers you don't have that many billable hours on up work location.
Again this is the silliness you have to pick this giant area and it's just not worth it.
I don't ever do that unless for some specific reason you just love working with Ukrainian's you can
pick Eastern Europe English level.
That's again ridiculous.
It's self-assigned.
They can assign themselves whatever they want.
We have people who say they're native or fluent and they speak like Google Translate.
So don't do that just say any level you can root them out very quickly cover letter is a little bit
different cover letter means that they have to write an introduction to you saying why they're applying.
That's great if this is a big project.
I usually get rid of it but it's kind of a tough call.
What ends up happening with cover letters is that people so often will just forget to turn this off
and they just say yes I want a cover letter and then I'll end up happening is someone comes in your
application sees that its cover letter and they just have a template and they just copy their template
in and send it to you.
You can tell that the template reads like a template.
There's no personality no individuality into it and that's just not a good idea.
You just don't want to tons and tons of template copies to you.
Again if it's a big project maybe it's a cover letter if you're asking for too much already.
Maybe you don't want a cover letter.
I've also found great freelancers because they actually took the time to write a cover letter.
They actually said why they're a good fit for it why they're interested and why they have the skills.
OK.
So in the next lecture we're going to talk really quickly about screening questions because those take
a little bit more attention and I think I've used enough of your attention already going over the details.
These are details details details but they make a big difference especially if you want to become a
master at getting contractors and get finding people who are outsourced.
These are kind of the tools of your craft so you really want to experiment with these figuring out what
works best for you but you always want to get it set up perfectly so you get the right people and have
the right incentives aligned.
OK guys see in the next lecture.